>> Maximiliano Firtman: Lazy sync,
the problem is that syncing
data to the server takes time.
It's not always possible,
because maybe the connection is down,
the server is down, things like that.
So lazy sync, it has other names as well.
The solution is make all the sync
to the server asynchronously and
detached from the UI.
For example, I think the first web app
that I remember that was using this
technique was Facebook, when Facebook
was the coolest social network, okay?
So, 2006, something around that.
It was the like button, actually,
when you were liking a post.
It, at that time, was a surprise
to see how fast the like was.
So you was pressing like and
the icon was changing to blue immediately.
So you went, this is really fast.
But actually, it wasn't waiting for
the server to accept the like,
it was detaching the syncing that like
to the server from the actual UI.
The next one that was doing
something similar was Gmail.
You were sending an email and
it was gone, and you said, I'm done.
But if you don't have connection, I'm sure
it happened to you, after a few second,
a message will appear, you know what,
we couldn't send the message.
So it was a reality.
Okay, you thought that the message is
gone, it's out, but actually, it was not.
And that's lazy sync, we detach the UI
from syncing the data to the server.
Use cases, save data,
save analytics, downloading news, so
then when you open the app,
it seems already fresh and updated,
and update the app's
components in the background.
It's also interesting.
This has to do, for example,
to uploading the assets,
downloading new assets,
new versions of the logo, the CSS,
when you're doing PWA,
progressive web app, things like that.
This is a use case.
Another link to another Frontend Masters'
course, is you can check the JavaScript
in the background, Frontend Masters,
of course, where I explained how
to implement this API with service
workers and the background sync API.
There is a background sync API that will
let you do the sync in the background,
even if the user is not using your app.
So you can be in a web
app doing some stuff.
You can be saving that stuff locally, and
maybe there is no connection at that time.
So the user will get out of there,
and it takes,
I don't know,
the underground somewhere else.
At some point in the future,
the device restores connection, and
in the background,
with the browser in the background,
your code can take action,
can wake up, can be woken up and
say, yeah, there is something else
I need to sync, let me try now.
And you can see that in the background,
okay?
So check the JavaScript in
the background core for more ideas.
The proxy pattern, actually,
the proxy pattern is one of the classic
patterns from the Gang of Four,
but with time,
it got more complicated, actually.
But the idea of the problem is that we
don't have always control on the access
to an object, including to
detect when some value changes.
So we have an object, an array,
a configuration object, whatever,
and how can we control who access
the data and if it change the value,
if the value is valid or not, because
anyone can go and change the content?
So the solution is to create
a proxy to the option.
So fortunately for us web developers,
we have the proxy design pattern
implemented in modern ActionScript.
Actually from, ES6,
we have the proxy available.
Use cases for this, reactive programming.
What's reactive programming?
It's more than a design pattern,
it's more of
a programming paradigm,
where you write some code and
you expect the code to
change things in the future.
Let me get out of here for a sec.
Let me try to explain this.
So if I have a variable a, this is
pseudocode, not real JavaScript, okay?
Forget about Javascript.
So I'm saying something like this,
var a =5, then I'm saying b = a+2.
And then you change a.
If I do console.log(b), what's the result?
7 or 12.
>> Student: 7.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: 7 or 12.
7, right?
But actually, if it's JavaScript, it's 7,
because JavaScript is not
a reactive programming language.
But there are some languages
using reactive programming where
the answer will be 12,
because what I have just said here,
it's not a static, but it's reactive
programming, it's just a + 2.
When you access b, it's a + 2.
If a is 10 now, it's 12.
I know that for some of you,
it doesn't make any sense, but
it's just a different paradigm, okay?
It's a completely different paradigm
of programming languages that gives me
12 instead of 7.
Well, you can implement some of these
ideas of reactive programming using
the proxy, okay?
Not exactly that syntax,
but the idea, okay?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Another use
case is adding a security layer on top
of objects to check who is accessing,
how the data is changing.
For example, if there is a cross-site
scripting problem going on,
now in the near future, that browsers
will implement local AI models,
LLM models that you can run locally.
You can use this to actually pass
the data through LLM locally and
see if the LLM is finding anything
weird or anything to worry about that
change that might involve a security
risk or things like that.
Also to logging all access
to important objects.
This is useful for debugging.
Every time you make a change, you log,
who changed the data, what's the previous
value, what's the current value, what
time, what's the call stack, wherever?
Okay, and you can end up with
a proxy that happens automatically,
even without the user's intervention.
That's part of the deal of a proxy,
that you talk to an object, or
you think it's the object and you don't
know that it's going through a proxy.
It's like someone in the middle ,okay?
For more information
on the topic of proxy,
check the Vanilla JS You Might Not Need
a Framework,
a workshop where we cover also proxies
with more details in ECMAScript,
and also how to use it for
reactive programming.
>> Student: With
the promisified data pattern,
we talked briefly about how there's
just such a marginal performance
overhead that it usually doesn't
hurt to implement it everywhere.
Is there something analogous for
the proxy pattern where like, yeah,
it doesn't hurt, just use a proxy for
everything cuz you might need it later, or
is it-
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Well,
you do have a performance penalty because
you will have two objects now instead of
one, and every call, every getter and
setter goes through something.
Of course, if you're calling an LLM model
for every change, yeah, it will take time.
Is it separate power that's going on?
Of course, so you do have.
So, yeah, you don't wanna implement
the design pattern on every variable,
on every object that you have.
So that's why we need to remember
to implement design patterns if
it's solving a problem and if the context
matches with my current context.
So you will apply a proxy only on some
special parts of your app that make sense.
You don't wanna apply a proxy everywhere
because it doesn't make too much sense
>> Student: That makes sense, thanks.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay, and
another one is called middleware.
It's a standard design pattern that
probably you have seen before.
Mostly if you are a Node.js developer and
you're using Express.js,
there are a lot of middlewares there, but
that's not the only place where this
design pattern was implemented.
The problem to solve is handling
tasks that affect multiple parts of
the application, logging,
security checks, error handling.
Authentication is difficult, and
it's also difficult to remember, hey,
remember that every time you
need to go to the network,
you need to check if
we do have connection.
You need to check if the token, the user
authentication token, is not expired.
You need to check that the user
is not trying to send weird
characters that can lead into
SQL injection or wherever.
You need to check, you need to log.
So you need to remember that
every time that you call an API,
you need to remember all those tasks.
So remembering those things and
reinforcing those things is complicated.
So to solve the problem,
to avoid forgetting about all those rules,
the solution is to insert layer of
processing between the initial request and
the final response.
So I wanna call an API.
If you implement the middleware pattern,
you just call the API processor,
nothing else.
Someone has said
middlewares in the middle.
Middlewares are objects in the middle
that each one is taking a request,
doing stuff, and making a response with
the same type of the initial request.
So it's like the request is processed,
that creates another request that is
processed, creates another
request that is processed.
Everyone in the middle is
maybe changing the request,
upgrading, decorating the request,
and so on.
That's kind of the idea of a middleware.
Use cases, API access, database access
are the pretty common scenario here, okay?
So those are, again, just some
design patterns for data management,
not all of them,
because there are hundreds of them.